- Delenn, I need a favor.
- You have only to ask.
I need to borrow
one of the White Star ships.
I heard what you have in mind.
I'll get it back to you
before the deadline.
We can spare the ship,
but may I ask why?
Listen, if you're gonna
attack Z'Ha'Dum
you're gonna need
all the help you can get.
There may still be
some First Ones out there
that we haven't found yet.
I have all the information
at hand that I need
to go out looking for them.
And some of them might be at
least as strong as the Shadows.
We found one last time we tried.
I think if we get a few more
to sign on--
I agree.
You'll need a translator.
The crews only speak Minbari.
Lennier must stay with me, but--
That's not necessary.
I've been
teaching myself Minbari.
I figure, what the heck,
you know
it gave me something to do.
I can handle the crew.
Oh, it's such
a very difficult language.
I know, but, uh, it's okay.
[speaking in foreign language]
Ah...it's--
Very good!
A bit of an accent..
...but, yes, very good.
Yes, but, um,
in the heat of battle
you must do more
than speak Minbari.
You must be able to think
in our language.
It can take a few seconds
to translate an order.
We know what can happen
in a few seconds.
Boom, crash, burn.
Exactly, so, uh, Marcus will
go with you, just to help--
- Uh, that's really not--
- Do you mind?
Not at all, love to.
[sighs]
Alright, then. Meet me in
docking bay four in two hours.
If you're not packed and ready
to go, I'm going without you.
I'll be there!
Tell the crew
anyone who laughs
will answer to me personally.
[dramatic music]
[indistinct chattering]
- 'Looks like there's a party.'
- That's curious.
There was no announcement
on the emperor's schedule.
[all laughing]
- Come, Narn.
- Oh.
- Come
- Whoa.
You must be terribly thirsty.
You haven't had a drink
in three days.
Here it is.
All you have to do
is ask for it
politely, of course,
and it's yours.
(male #1)
'Oh!'
[laughing]
He slipped on his pride
and fell on his honor!
[laughing]
G'Kar.
[instrumental music]
- It was the year of fire.
- The year of destruction.
(G'Kar)
The year we took back
what was ours.
- It was the year of rebirth.
- The year of great sadness.
- The year of pain.
- And a year of joy.
- It was a new age.
- It was the end of history.
(Ivanova)
It was the year
everything changed.
(Garibaldi)
The year is 2261.
The place, Babylon 5.
[theme music]
[music continues]
[instrumental music]
(Delenn)
By the human calendar
this is January 17th, 2261.
Everyone I hold dear is gone.
It is over two standard weeks
since John failed to return
from Z'Ha'Dum
two weeks since
Mr. Garibaldi disappeared.
Londo and Vir have returned
to Centauri Prime
and G'Kar is also gone
searching for Mr. Garibaldi.
Marcus and Ivanova have taken
one of the White Star fleet.
Where they are, I have no idea.
They hope to find
more of the First Ones
for our final assault
on Z'Ha'Dum.
It is a desperate mission
but these are desperate times.
Anything, anything at all?
We've scanned
all the planets in the area.
There may have been
something here once
a long time ago,
but it's gone now.
That's three dead ends in a row.
Susan, apart from
our little run in last year
there hasn't been a confirmed
sighting of the First Ones
for almost a thousand years.
- It's gonna take time.
- We don't have time.
Then I suggest we move on.
We spent almost two days here.
We can't afford
to waste another day.
I-I just thought
from all the stories
that this place would be perfect
and I was sure
we'd find something.
Alright.
What's next on the list?
Sector 87 by 20 by 42.
At least a dozen ships
have reported
seeing something
rather godlike in the area.
And since
neither you nor I were there
it must be
one of the First Ones.
You're having delusions
of grandeur again.
Well, if you're gonna
have delusions
may as well go
for the really satisfying ones.
Shall I set course?
(Delenn)
I hope they have had luck
in their journey..
...because we are badly
outnumbered by our enemies.
Ambassador.
I've got
the information G'Kar wanted
on the transport
that found Garibaldi's fighter.
I tried sending word,
but I couldn't reach him.
Nobody's heard from G'Kar
in days.
Can it wait until he calls in?
No, too risky.
If this really is a lead
on Mr. Garibaldi
and we wait too long
we could lose
our only chance of finding him.
Now, I can chase this down
but if you'd rather send
someone after G'Kar--
No, we can't afford to send
anymore people after him.
The deadline for our attack
is too close.
I can only hope he's alright.
Yeah.
[birds chirping]
I-I-I can't believe it!
Did you see him?
I was right there, Vir.
I saw him.
How can you see G'Kar like that
and feel nothing?
I feel, Vir.
I wish that I didn't.
It would make this much easier.
But we must play along
until the time is right.
I don't know
if G'Kar can survive that long!
He will survive, he must
for my sake as well as his own.
If we succeed, we will take back
our world from Cartagia
and G'Kar will win back his,
as well.
That was our deal.
But I hear
that they're torturing him.
Apparently,
Cartagia was dissatisfied
with his performance
this morning.
- As I told you, a monster.
- I know, I know.
It's just that I've never been
involved in a conspi..
I've never been involved
in a conspiracy
to kill anyone before
not to mention, the emperor!
I thought we were past this
centuries ago!
I mean, there's got to be
another way, Londo.
I mean, can't we reason with him
or something--
- Shh!
- 'Damn!'
Damn him, damn him, damn him!
Damn his silence!
Ha, he refuses to bow,
he refuses to drink!
Majesty.
Do you know
that we assigned him
one of our best
pain technicians?
Pain technicians, they used
to be called torturers.
Ever since they got organized,
it's pain technicians.
- Why are you here?
- Uh, I--
One of our very best torturers!
I felt certain
he would break him.
Two hours he worked,
not a sound.
I said, give me a cry, Rintinzi
give me a shout,
a whimper, a scream.
Silence,
so I got into it myself.
You can't leave these things
to others.
They never get it right! It..
Well, you can see for yourself.
If I didn't know better,
I'd say he was a mute!
Silence. Hm.
I'm beginning to understand
what you're going through with
this G'Kar.
How you've put up with him
this long, I've no idea.
He was a small burden.
So towards the end I decided..
...cut off his hands
maybe that would get a reaction.
- Great Maker. Did you--
- 'No, no.'
Unfortunately, he passed out
before we got that far.
Loss of blood, I suppose.
Very inconvenient.
We'll start again
when he's conscious.
And this time
if he remains silent..
Silence! Silence! Well, well..
Well, where is the joy
in that, really?
He's so insubordinate.
I can't have him challenging
my authority that way.
I know I made a present of him
to you, Mollari
but if I don't get my scream
he'll have to be killed.
You do understand, don't you?
Oh, yes, Majesty, of course.
Ah.
Ah..
It'll help the flowers, hm?
Life and death
in perfect balance.
- Good day, Mollari.
- 'Good day.'
Londo, remember
what I said before
about there must be another way?
I was wrong.
Kill him.
(Zack on radio)
'Convoy one to C-and-C,
standing by.'
Clear to proceed, Mr. Allan.
Good hunting to you.
Now, hold your fire
until I give the word.
Mr. Garibaldi
really is on board.
We don't wanna risk
injuring him.
It'd just make him mad,
and you know what he's like.
(man on radio)
'That's a roger, Shuttle One.'
- 'Yes?'
- Lyta, it's Delenn.
- May I talk to you?
- 'Oh, uh..'
(Lyta)
'T-this isn't a good time.
Could you come back later?'
I'm afraid not.
Please, may I come in?
I know it's late, but..
[door closes]
Lyta...what happened?
Your furniture?
The new ambassador instructed me
to get rid of everything
but the mattress.
And that was only a concession
to the human need for sleep.
He said it was a distraction
from the work.
But he cannot force you
to live like this, can he?
Yes, he can.
Was there something
that you wanted, ambassador?
In less than a week
the Rangers
and a few of the League worlds
will launch an attack
on Z'Ha'Dum.
I've sent word
to the Vorlon ambassador
asking if his government would
commit ships to our cause.
He has never replied.
The ambassador
has been very busy.
I thought
he would welcome the chance
to strike at the Shadows.
I think the Vorlons
have plans of their own.
There's, there's
something going on..
...something they
haven't told us yet.
- Do you have any idea?
- No.
And frankly, I'm afraid to ask.
I don't think
that they care about
what happens to us anymore,
Delenn.
I think the game
just got bigger than that.
I know this is hard for you
but you must try and find out
what they're planning.
I can't!
You do not know what
this new Vorlon is like, Delenn
or the things he can do.
Lyta, in less than
seven standard days
our ships are leaving
for Z'Ha'Dum.
We cannot
walk into this blindly.
If there's something going on,
we need to know what it is.
Please!
I'll do what I can.
That's all I ask.
Thank you.
[door opens]
(Zack)
'I repeat, you are ordered
to surrender your vessel'
or we will be forced to attack.
This is your last warning.
Please respond.
[radio static]
Alright.
Bravo One and Three, target main
engines and control systems
but stay clear of the hull.
(man on radio)
'Roger that, Shuttle One.'
[gunfire]
[explosion]
System is still operational.
Come around
for another pass at..
Wait a second. Stand by.
They've launched a life pod.
It could be him.
They'll probably try to make
a run for it. Stand by to..
[explosion]
Shuttle One to Bravo convoy.
Any sign of survivors?
(man on radio)
'Negative, Shuttle One.'
[sighs]
I don't get it.
We didn't do that much damage.
(man on radio)
'We could've hit
a primary system somehow.'
Maybe.
Alright. Let's pick up
the life pod.
I only hope
they decided to surrender
before they knew
how badly they were hit.
(man on radio)
'Roger. Moving in.'
(automated message)
'Contact confirmed.'
'Initiating program.'
[dramatic music]
(male #2)
'Alright, watch it.'
I want full body and cardiac
stimulation, alright?
Oxygenate his blood!
Run bioplasma up the carotid
to minimize injury
to the brain cells.
Doc, will he be okay?
I'm not sure until we do
a full scan, but I think so.
He should be okay as long as
we don't find any surprises.
Now, what happened?
How'd you find him?
We had a lead on the guy
who found his fighter
and turned it over
to a salvage operation.
When we ran a check
on Earth-registered ships
we came up lucky,
got his flight plan.
You know
what they were doing to him?
Negative.
Ship was destroyed right after
they ejected his life pod.
Doctor, there's a rise
in blood pressure.
Alright, I'm coming in.
Good going on this,
Zack, alright?
It's about time we had
a little luck around here.
Thanks.
Yeah. We were lucky, alright.
[indistinct chattering]
[dramatic music]
You didn't have
to pull out of me so fast.
You hurt me.
While I was carrying you,
you felt..
...cold, hard.
What are you hiding from me?
Your work for now
is done here.
Go. Sleep.
I have a right to know.
I have done
everything you asked.
I let your people modify me
enhance my telepathic ability
so I'd be more suited to carry
a Vorlon around in my head
because I believed!
Kosh, the real Kosh
wasn't like this.
I think in some odd way
he cared about us..
...about me.
But with you,
it's as if I'm being used
and then thrown away
when I'm not needed anymore.
Damn it, I have earned
some respect!
And I have earned some answers.
Respect?
From whom?
[groans]
Would you know my thoughts?
Would you?
[Lyta screaming]
A little scream.
Is that so much to ask for?
I know what it is with you.
It's your pride.
You would rather stay silent
than give him the satisfaction
of seeing you
cry out in pain, hm?
I would probably do the same
myself, but not now!
There's too much at stake!
I need a live ally,
not a dead martyr!
What you ask I cannot give.
Is your pride worth more to you
than saving your world?
We had a deal!
You help me with Cartagia,
I help free Narn!
We do not oblige conquerors.
If I give him what he wants
if I beg for mercy, cry out
I would no longer be a Narn.
And if you are dead,
are you still a Narn, then?
No!
You are food
for Cartagia's pets
and your people
are still prisoners!
They, too, are no longer Narns,
only slaves
and then dead slaves.
Is that what you want, G'Kar?
Is it?
One scream, that's all!
One little scream
and he will let you live
and we will both get
what we want!
You don't know
what you're asking.
- You don't understand.
- Yes, I do!
Yes, I do.
[groans]
- What's our ETA?
- Two, three hours.
All this technology and it still
takes forever to get anywhere.
Ask you a question?
Assuming we live through this
what do you want to do
when the war's over?
[sighs]
Go home.
See St. Petersburg, Paris.
I wanna visit my father's grave.
I didn't make it
to the funeral.
I couldn't take it
at the time.
Then travel.
I wanna walk outside..
[chuckles]
I think the last time I looked
up and saw a sky
was...six years ago.
Anyone special waiting for you
back home?
No, not anymore.
You?
Someone.
She doesn't know it yet.
That's a strange way
to pursue a relationship.
I suppose so.
Ah, I want this thing
to go right.
I want it to be special.
Oh. A romantic.
I don't think I've felt that way
since the first time.
That's what I'm talking about.
You mean, you don't..
- You haven't..
- Yes.
- You're a..
- Exactly.
With anyone?
Never met
the right person before.
Wow!
I thought
the first ones were rare.
Well, I-I hope
she appreciates it.
So do I. It's..
[beeping]
I'm picking something up.
A unicorn? Sorry.
It's some kind of
distortion field in hyperspace.
It's as if someone's taken
a part of hyperspace
and folded it on itself
like a pocket.
It's barely noticeable.
The only reason we can
detect it at all
is because this thing's partly
based on Vorlon technology.
- Can you track it?
- I think so. Coming about.
It could be some kind
of a hiding place
built right into hyperspace
so no one else could find it.
- First Ones?
- Maybe.
Who else would know
how to do it?
Approaching distortion field.
[beeping]
- Getting anything?
- Not sure.
Instruments
are all over the place.
- Marcus.
- Trying to correct.
Marcus.
You better take a look.
Bloody hell!
[instrumental music]
(man on speaker)
'What happened
after you left Babylon 5?'
I told you,
I don't remember anything!
(man on speaker)
'What happened
after you left Babylon 5?'
I don't remember anything!
God, I don't remember!
I don't remember!
Stop it! Stop it, stop it!
No!
(Zack)
'Chief?'
- Chief?
- Zack?
Yeah.
- You okay?
- I think so.
I had a bad dream.
What happened?
I was about to ask you
the same thing.
Last time anybody saw you
was over two weeks ago.
Two weeks? No, it can't be.
I-I was just..
(Zack)
'Just what?'
I-I-I don't know.
Every-everything's a blur.
Do you remember anything that
happened to you after you left?
No. No, nothing, I..
I don't remember anything.
Two weeks?
- Where's Sheridan?
- Then you don't know?
Captain Sheridan's dead.
He died at Z'Ha'Dum.
(Delenn)
Thank you for bringing this
to my attention, Lethke.
I only wish
that I had better news.
The other League worlds
are worried
about your decision
to attack Z'Ha'Dum.
They believe that in doing so
you will only provoke
a deadly response.
Response is coming either way.
The Shadows
will strike again soon.
We have nothing more to lose.
Unfortunately,
people never believe
that they have
nothing else to lose
until they've already lost it.
- They're afraid!
- We're all afraid.
But their fear may cause them
to act against you.
They asked if I would attend
an open rally
to protest your actions.
They hope to stir up
popular support
to cause the few worlds
that have sided with you
to withdraw their ships.
Do you know when?
Later today.
That's all I know.
When I declined to participate
they kept the rest
of the information from me.
How do you plan to stop them?
I don't.
I do not agree
with what they're doing.
Their fear is making them act
against their own interests
but they must be free
to speak their minds..
...or we have nothing left
worth fighting for.
But you will be there?
My voice is as free as theirs.
They'll hear my side, as well.
The truth will attend to itself.
I hope you're right, Delenn.
Oh, one last thing.
We received a message from
one of our long-range probes.
It picked up an unfamiliar ship
moving on a hyperspace beacon
that might be taking it
toward Babylon 5.
'I wondered if you knew
anything about this.'
No. I'm sorry.
Well, if it's coming here,
I suppose
we'll find out soon enough, hm?
[dramatic music]
Ah, I see they've dragged you
out of bed, too, hm?
Yes. They told me to come,
but I still don't know why.
Yes, and this one
was not being very helpful.
Where are we going, hm?
You don't think they know,
do you?
- No. Shh.
- But it's so late.
Where are we going?
I don't like it.
Well, why are we stopping?
Approach. We've been
waiting for you.
- Majesty?
- This is my private place.
I come here to think, to dream
to plan for my eventual godhood
and to play.
Very few who come in here
ever leave again.
You should feel honored.
The electro whip is set
'to give an increasing level
of pain'
each time it is used.
At 40 strokes
it will kill even a Narn.
It stops when he screams.
Majesty, there must be another--
I must have my scream.
If he does not scream,
he dies at 40.
It's his choice, not mine.
Proceed, one..
'...two, three'
four, five
'six, seven'
'eight, nine'
'ten, eleven'
twelve, thirteen
fourteen, fifteen
'sixteen, seventeen'
eighteen, nineteen
'twenty, twenty one'
'twenty two, twenty three'
twenty four, twenty five
twenty six, twenty seven
twenty eight, twenty nine
thirty
thirty one, thirty two
'thirty three, thirty four'
thirty five, thirty six
thirty seven, thirty eight
thirty nine..
[screaming]
Ah.
[dramatic music]
- 'Ivanova to C-and-C.'
- 'C-and-C online.'
We're coming in.
Find Lyta Alexander.
I need to see her
as soon as possible.
(man on radio)
'Confirmed. Anything else?'
Yes, I want you to run a probe
on all transmissions
from sector..
- 70 by 10 by 53.
- Did you get that?
(man on radio)
'Got it.
What are we looking for?'
I don't know.
But we'll know it
when we find it.
[indistinct chattering]
Yes?
There is quite a bit
of movement going on
in the Zocalo, Delenn.
I would suggest, the gathering
we were warned about
is coming soon.
I'll be there as fast as I can.
- Anything yet?
- Nothing, commander.
- Keep looking. Where's Lyta?
- We're tracking her down now.
[beeping]
Commander, we've got something
coming through the jumpgate.
Signature and silhouette
unknown.
- Could it be the Vorlons?
- I hope not.
- How soon?
- Now.
It's coming in on approach.
Open up a frequency.
I can't. I-it's not using
any of the standard frequencies.
- Then it'll just have to wait--
- Commander.
It's using our own access codes.
I-it's activated
docking bay sequence.
What? Ivanova to Security,
red alert!
[alarm blaring]
(man on PA)
'It's moving
into the central docking bay.'
'All units move into position.'
[indistinct chattering]
(Drazi)
'Everyone listen!'
Listen to us!
There's something
that you don't know!
We must tell you the truth
because the Minbari never
tell anyone the whole truth.
[indistinct chattering]
Delenn and others
conspiring with her
are risking all of your lives
by organizing an attack
against the homeworld
of the Shadows!
[indistinct chattering]
[indistinct yelling]
(male #3)
'Let's go! Blue level, go!'
Hey, chief. What are you doing?
If someone's boarding
the station, I oughta be there.
But look,
you're in no condition--
Hey, tough. I'm going, huh?
I'm betting you can't
spare the people
to put me back to bed, can you?
Alright. Come on.
(Drazi)
The Shadows
have withdrawn for now.
There have been no new attacks.
We believe we can find
a peaceful solution.
If there is another pointless
attack against Z'Ha'Dum
they will destroy us all!
- They will come anyway!
- You don't know that!
[dramatic music]
Well, I'll be damned.
It has been a 1000 years
since the last Shadow War.
If we do nothing
to provoke them
it may be another 1000 years
before they move again.
We cannot allow the fleet
to leave for Z'Ha'Dum.
That fleet is our only chance!
Don't listen to her.
She must be silenced!
You're acting out of fear!
And you're acting
out of grief and loss!
If Sheridan has died,
then why not the rest of us?
You cannot attack Z'Ha'Dum.
No one has ever succeeded.
Ships go there and never return.
Lives are wasted.
'Sheridan died
trying to attack Z'Ha'Dum.'
No one who goes there
comes back alive.
[indistinct chattering]
Captain.
We're sorry.
We thought you were dead.
I was.
I'm better now.
The ambassador is correct.
I went to Z'Ha'Dum.
I've seen the face of the enemy.
They're not gods
and they're not indestructible.
I've fought them
and I've killed many of them..
...and I've survived.
'There is a way out of this'
a way to stop this insanity
once and for all.
Now, Delenn's fleet is a start.
Now we have to build on it.
Together we will form
the largest fleet in history
not just for a battle..
...but to change
the shape of the galaxy!
'Not just for ourselves,
but for our children'
'and our children's children.'
You tell your governments
that the only man
to survive Z'Ha'Dum
sends this message.
We can end this,
not just for now
not just for the next
1000 years, but forever!
(male #4)
'Yes!'
I stand before you as proof
that it can be done!
We can fight and we can win
'but only if we do it together!'
Can I count on you?
[indistinct chattering]
Will you stand together?
- Yes!
[cheering]
I thought
I'd never see you again.
I'll never leave you, Delenn
not if the whole universe
stood between us.
(man on speaker)
'This is C-and-C
to Lyta Alexander.'
'Your presence
is requested at once'
'in Captain Sheridan's office.'
'Repeat, this is C-and-C
to Lyta Alexander.'
'Your presence
is requested at once'
'in Captain Sheridan's office.'
'This is C-and-C
to Lyta Alexander.'
'Your presence
is requested at once'
'in Captain Sheridan's office.'
You know, don't you?
It's started.
(Sheridan)
When most
of the First Ones left
two of them, the Shadows
and Vorlons, stayed behind.
And their job was to keep an eye
on the younger races,
help them along
but they couldn't
decide or agree
on what had to be done.
'The Vorlons believe
that strength comes'
through order and discipline.
The Shadows believe
in promoting evolution
through conflict, starting wars.
Those are diametrically
opposite positions.
Exactly.
Now, at first, there was
a balance between the two sides.
Yeah, they abided
by rules of engagement
respected
each other's positions
but that changed over time.
Something, Mr. Garibaldi?
I just wanna know who our
new best friend is over here.
(Sheridan)
His name is Lorien.
That's all you need
to know for now.
Yeah? Who decided that?
- He did.
- Well, isn't that convenient?
Michael, what the hell is that?
I told you I trust him.
I know, I know. Secrets
on top of secrets, right?
I'm getting too old
for this stuff.
[laughs]
What? That's funny to you?
Lorien is...older than he looks.
John, what I don't
understand is
why the wars,
why the fighting?
If each side agreed
to respect the other--
Oh, I don't know
who started it first, Delenn
but somewhere along the line,
they both decided
that their way
was the right way, the only way.
And we've been caught
in the middle ever since.
Hello, captain.
Welcome back, John.
Hey.
[laughs]
Ah..
Hey, I heard that you three
went to Z'Ha'Dum after me.
That was foolish and dangerous.
And I can't thank you enough
for trying.
Listen, I hate to bring this up
at a time like this.
It seems like every time
we get good news
and you guys coming back alive
there's always something
that comes up
and smacks us in the head.
What is it?
[sighs]
When Marcus and I were out
looking for the First Ones
we came across a Vorlon fleet
hiding in hyperspace.
Not dozens, not hundreds,
but thousands of ships.
A couple of them
were three, four miles across.
We tried to track them
but we lost them somewhere
around Sector 70.
There's a Shadow base
not far from there.
Exactly,
so as soon as we got back
I had C-and-C
monitor that area
for any transmissions,
anything unusual.
The Shadow base was located
on a planet called Arcata VII
but it's not there anymore.
- The base?
- No, the planet.
They destroyed..
They destroyed an entire planet.
Lyta.
There are over four million
people on Arcata VII.
You, you can't be serious.
This latest incident, everything
that's happened lately
it's convinced the Vorlons
that their only alternative
is to destroy the Shadows
and anyone touched by them
like an infection,
you have to cut it out.
And any healthy tissue
that's cut out along the way
well, that's okay because
it's all for a good cause.
Since the Shadows are about
to strike back any time now..
...we're caught
in the middle again.
In Valen's name.
We could barely stop
the Shadows.
How do we stop them
and the Vorlons?
I don't know, all I know
is that unless you do stop them
it won't matter
who wins and who loses
because none of us,
not a single world
in 70 light years
in any direction
will live to see it.
[theme music]